---
layout: default
title: Global Herbicide Resistance Challenge, A technician's perspective
---

In May this year I attended the Global Herbicide Resistance Challenge conference in Denver, Colorado, USA along with five other colleagues from Rothamsted Research. This was a great opportunity to showcase some of the research from the BGRI that we have been working on for the past three years and a chance to network with scientists working on herbicide resistance from across the world. This was also a particularly exciting trip for myself as technicians do not always attend conferences so I was grateful of the opportunity to be part of an international meeting and present my work.

The first day was mainly spent setting the scene about herbicide resistance across the continents which was useful to hear, if a little daunting, about the resistance levels of various weeds. On the second morning of the conference, the delegates were given a choice of four workshops that they could attend covering the genomics, communication, socioeconomics and big data surrounding herbicide resistance. I chose to attend the socioeconomics session and we played a game in pairs about weed management with your ‘neighbour’ depending on whether you were going to manage for your resistance or not. It was an interesting exercise and gave some insights as to how farmers could influence resistance in an area, whether beneficially or detrimentally. I thought the workshop idea was good as it made delegates interact with each other and sparked discussion and debate.

The poster sessions were first thing in the morning before the presentations, but because they were set up in the room where breakfast, coffee breaks and lunch was served, this meant interest in the posters occurred through the day. Rothamsted colleagues David Comont, Richard Hull, Claudia Lowe and I all had posters and had a good level of interest throughout the conference. David’s poster reported on glyphosate sensitivity, Claudia demonstrated her work on non-target site herbicide resistance for her PhD and Richard’s poster discussed resistance problems in residual herbicides. I had good interactions with European delegates and a particularly engaging conversation with a female technician from New Zealand who was especially interested in how we had managed to gain such an expansive network of farms for our Black-grass surveys. The most common comments or questions about my poster were about the interactions with the farmers and how we had managed to include so many of them as part of the BGRI.  It was very rewarding to be at this conference with my poster demonstrating the experiments we had undertaken to investigate the levels of widespread multiple herbicide resistance in populations of Black-grass in the UK.

During the rest of the conference I found the education and management sessions the most informative as I am interested in the applied side of weed science. One morning was dedicated to presentations from other disciplines and I found the talks from an ecologists and public health perspective particularly thought-provoking as I believe it is important to learn lessons and integrate ideas from other sectors. This session also reported on farmer interactions and survey work within weeds and I also personally found this interesting because this relates to our own work and I think farmer engagement is an important part of herbicide resistance research. I attended the modelling and population genetics session as fellow colleague Andrea Dixon was presenting her work on population genomics in UK Black-grass populations and Shaun Coutts from Sheffield University was presenting the results from the field surveys. In a parallel session Nawaporn Onkokesung from Newcastle University was demonstrating the Black-grass diagnostic kit. Altogether there was a very good representation of BGRI members at the conference.

I found this conference engaging and, as a first foray into an international conference, a great experience. It was good to hear about all the research going on within herbicide resistance from around the world and there was a positive feeling that work was ongoing to tackle the problem. Of course, there is always more to be done and one particular issue identified was that there was a lack of delegates and research from Africa but hopefully this will be addressed before the next Resistance Challenge conference. I enjoyed my week in Denver, being able to present my work and networking with delegates, hopefully making new contacts for future research in global herbicide resistance.
<p>